.Dd May 1, 2020
.Dt TM1637 4
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm tm1637
.Nd driver for the TM1637 4 Digit 7 Segment Display
.Sh SYNOPSIS
To compile this driver as a kernel loadable module with fdt-overlays
edit a fdt-overlay for Your platform to set right pins the display
is connected. Then chenge a current directory to the top of sources codes
of the driver and type:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
make
sudo make install
.Ed
.Pp
To activate the overlay at boot time add its name to
.Va fdt_overlays
in
.Xr loader.conf 5 :
.Bd -literal -offset indent
fdt_overlays="<other_overlays>,tm1637-gpio-rpi2"
.Ed
or
.Bd -literal -offset indent
fdt_overlays="<other_overlays>,sun8i-h3-tm1637-gpio"
.Ed
.Pp
and to load the driver as a module at boot time
place following lines in same
.Xr loader.conf 5 :
.Bd -literal -offset indent
tm1637_load="YES"
.Ed
.Pp
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm
is a low-cost 4-digit 7-segment display module. It can display up to 4 digits
and a colon between 2nd and 3rd ones. Because of the colon it is good for
displaying time. For a connecting to
.Xr gpiobus 4
it uses two wires DIO and CLK along with power (either +3V or +5V) and
GND. The device uses its own protocol for data exchange and does not comply
with the
.Xr iic 4
standard.
.Pp
On a
.Xr FDT 4
based system the following properties must be set:
.Bl -tag -width ".Va compatible"
.It Va compatible
Must always be set to "tm1637".
.El
.Sh SYSCTL VARIABLES
The following variables are available to control the display via
.Xr sysctl 8 :
.Bd -literal
dev.tm1637.0.raw_mode: 0
dev.tm1637.0.on: 1
dev.tm1637.0.brightness: 1
dev.tm1637.0.%parent: simplebus0
dev.tm1637.0.%pnpinfo: name=tm1637@0 compat=tm1637
dev.tm1637.0.%location: 
dev.tm1637.0.%driver: tm1637
dev.tm1637.0.%desc: TM1637 4 Digit 7 Segment Display
dev.tm1637.%parent: 
.Ed
.Bl -tag -width ".Va dev.tm1537"
.It Va dev.tm1637.<unit>.on
The mode of the display, 0=off, 1=on. In off mode display is blank and data
being written is not realy sent to it. But last piece of data will be sent
to the display when it is turned on.
.It Va dev.tm1637.<unit>.brightness
The display brightness level, 0=darkest, 7=brightest
.It Va dev.tm1637.<unit>.raw_mode
Data input mode, 0=human readable, 1=raw. In the human readable input mode
the device will interpret the data as a string up to 5 characters long ended up
by "\\n", by example: "12:34\\n". In the raw input mode the data will be
interpreted as bytes of segments by one to each digit (A start position can be
set before writing to the device in this mode).
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr fdt 4 ,
.Xr sysctl 8
.Sh AUTHORS
.An -nosplit
The
.Nm
driver and this manual page were written by
.An Alexander Mishin Aq Mt mishin@mh.net.ru .
